Arthur, W. B. and Polak, W. (2006), The evolution of technology within a simple computer model. Complexity, 11: 23–31. doi:10.1002/cplx.20130

This paper addresses the evolution of computing, and whether we can "evolve" a computer from it's fundamental component -- in this case, the NAND gate. This is modeled by a computer program running many generations of simulation, in which each generation wires together random components, and generates a truth table to see if we ended up with any desired functionality. Those components that do end up with desired functionality are saved to be used as a component in future generations. If a component is made and has the same functionality as a previous component, but is more efficient, the new component replaces the old one.

The authors pursued this topic to explore how technology builds on itself over time, and chose to show this by focusing on a single, small aspect of technology. While they make a lot of observations about how certain classes of logical functions are made and how quickly they were discovered, they also concede that this is not the most accurate model of technological innovation, and the discovered functions were more due to probability and combinatorics. They conclude by saying that it is neccessary for later technological function to use earlier "stepping stones", even if those earlier technology is fairly useless on their own (ex. transistors). This is a fairly simplistic conclusion but it is definitely backed up by the results.